Let's look at exception handling. I've opened the project
and have navigated to the ApplicationNotFoundException
found in the exception package.
Let's take a look at it.
This is a very simple exception.
It extends the runtime exception, and in the constructor, we're simply
passing in a string that represents the exception.
So let's go to where we actually use this exception.
So if you navigate down to TzaController,
there is a method on line 50 called getApplication. Notice, I'm
using the @GetMapping annotation. Any time there's a get request to
this path, application and an id being passed in, its going to map
to this getApplication method,
and it's going to retrieve the path variable of the id. Notice here on line
52, I'm using the applicationService to find that particular application
passing in the id, so let's look more closely.
Let's go to the implementation. Here, I'm in the applicationService on line 23.
Here, on line 24, I'm using the applicationRepository.findById, passing in the
id, and notice this returns an optional. And this simply says there could be a
value or there could not be a value.
And so on line 26, I'm testing to see if a value is present.
If it is, I'm returning that value.
If a value is not present,
then I'm returning a new ApplicationNotFoundException, and I'm
passing in the text Application Not Found. Here, going back to the
TzaController, the getApplication method down on line 50, I'm
catching this ApplicationNotFoundException.
Then, I'm throwing a new ResponseStatusException.
I'm passing in the HttpStatus of NOT_FOUND, and then I'm
sending back the message Application Not Found.
So I've already launched and deployed the application.
So this time, we're going to use a tool called cURL to test it.
CURL is a command line tool that lets you call APIs.
Here, I'm using the keyword curl and then the URL of the API I'm trying to call.
So in this case, we're just listing out the applications. And this looks right.
It's all of the applications found in the database.
So now let's retrieve a single application.
And so it's going to be curl again, the URL. In this case,
let's retrieve the first application, and it's what we expect.
It's the Trackzilla application with an id of 1.
So now let's retrieve one that we know doesn't exist with an
id of 76. And look at what we get back.
We get a status of 404, an error Not Found, and a
message, Application Not Found. So this is a look at how you can add exception handling to your APIs.